---
title: Multipath TCP Load Balancing
abbrev: MPTCP LB
docname: draft-duchene-mptcp-load-balancing-00
date: 2016-08-10
category: exp


ipr: trust200902
area: Transport
workgroup: MPTCP Working Group
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
  ins: F. Duchene
  name: Fabien Duchene
  organization: UCLouvain
  email: fabien.duchene@uclouvain.be
 -
  ins: O. Bonaventure
  name: Olivier Bonaventure
  organization: UCLouvain
  email: Olivier.Bonaventure@uclouvain.be


normative:
  RFC6824:

informative:
  RFC6182:
  RFC1323:
  RFC0793:
  RFC7430:
  I-D.ietf-mptcp-rfc6824bis:

--- abstract

Multipath TCP {{RFC6824}} may not work behind load balancers. 
In this document we propose several solutions to allow Multipath TCP
to work behind load balancers.

--- middle

Introduction
============

Multipath TCP is an extension to TCP {{RFC0793}} that was specified
in {{RFC6824}}. Multipath TCP allows hosts to use multiple paths
to send and receive the data belonging to one connection. For this,
a Multipath TCP is composed of several TCP connections that
are called subflows. 

Many large web sites are served by servers that are behind a load balancer.
The load balancer receives the connection establishment attempts and
forwards them to the actual servers that serve the requests. One issue for
the end-to-end deployment of Multipath TCP is it ability to be used on
load-balancers. Different types of load balancers are possible. We consider
a simple but important load balancer than does not maintain any per-flow
state. This load balancer is illustrated in illustrated in 
{{fig-lb}}. A stateless load balancer can be implemented by hashing
the five tuple (IP addresses and port numbers) of each incoming packet
and forward them to one of the servers based on the hash value computed.
With TCP, this load balancer ensures that all the packets that belong to
one TCP connection are sent to the same server. 


~~~~

   +--+---- S1
---|LB|---- S2
   +--+---- S3

~~~~
{: #fig-lb title="Stateless load balancer"}


With Multipath TCP, this approach cannot be used anymore when subflows are
created by the clients. Such subflows can use any five tuple and thus packets
belonging to them will be forwarded over any server, not necessarily the
one that was selected by the hashing function for the initial subflow.

In this document, we propose several solutions to allow Multipath TCP to work 
behind load balancers.

Proposed solutions {#solutions}
=========================

Modification of the protocol {#protocol}
----------------------------

To allow Multipath TCP to work for hosts being hosted behind unmodified
layer 4 load balancers, we propose to use the unused \"B\" flag in the
MP\_CAPABLE  option sent (shown in {{fig-mpcap}} in the SYN+ACK. 
This flag would allow a host behind a layer 4 load balancer to inform 
the other host that this address  MUST NOT be used to create 
additional subflows.

A host receiving an MP\_CAPABLE with the \"B\" set to 1 MUST NOT try to 
establish a subflow to the address used in the MP\_CAPABLE. This bit can
also be used in the MP\_CAPABLE option sent in the SYN by a client that
resides behind a NAT or firewall or does not accept server-initiated 
subflows.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                     1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
|     Kind      |    Length     |Subtype|Version|A|B|C|D|E|F|G|H|
+---------------+---------------+-------+-------+---------------+
|                   Option Sender's Key (64 bits)               |
|                      (if option Length > 4)                   |
|                                                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------------+
|                  Option Receiver's Key (64 bits)              |
|                      (if option Length > 12)                  |
|                                                               |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+
|  Data-Level Length (16 bits)  |  Checksum (16 bits, optional) |
+-------------------------------+-------------------------------+

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-mpcap title="Multipath Capable (MP_CAPABLE) Option"}

This bit can be used by the servers behind a stateless load balancers.
Each of these servers has a different IP address than the address of the
load balancer. The servers set the \"B\" flag in the MP\_CAPABLE
option that they return and advertise their own address by using the 
ADD\_ADDR option. Upon reception of this option, the clients can
create the additional subflows towards these addresses. Compared with
current stateless load balancers, an advantage of this approach is
that the packets belonging to the additional subflows do not need
to pass through the load balancer.

Stateful MPTCP aware Load Balancer (ULG)
------------------------------------------


MPLB (Costin and Vlad)
----------------------


Application Layer Authentication (Christoph, Alan)
--------------------------------------------------


Recommandations
================

IANA considerations
===================

This document proposes some modifications to the Multipath TCP options
defined in {{RFC6824}}. These modifications do not require any
specific action from IANA.

Security considerations
=======================

The security considerations defined for Multipath TCP in 
{{RFC6182}}  and {{RFC7430}} are applicable. 

The ``E`` flag, community and priority values in the ADD\_ADDR option 
do not change the security considerations for the handling of this option.
Since the ADD\_ADDR option is protected by an HMAC, an off-path attacker
cannot inject such an option in an existing Multipath TCP connection.

The ``priority`` field of the MP\_PRIO option is not protected by a
HMAC. It could be useful to consider the utilisation of an HMAC to
protect this option like the ADD\_ADDR option. 

The ``B`` flag of the MP\_CAPABLE option does not change the security 
considerations of this option. If an attacker that resides
on a path sets this bit, it could prevent the establishment of subflows.
However, Multipath TCP does not protect against an attacker that resides
on the path of the initial subflow and can modify the SYN/SYN+ACK
packets. 


Conclusion
==========

In this document, we have discussed several issues with the
advertisement of addresses with the address advertisement in
Multipath TCP. We have proposed several modifications to the protocol
to address these issues.

--- back


